---
layout: page
title: International Journal of Usuluddin Studies (MIJUS)s
description: 16/12/2025
img: assets/img/gallery/54/1.jpg
importance: 5
category: Other
related_publications: false
---
<p class="distill-post-title">International Journal of Usuluddin Studies (MIJUS)</p>
Vol 3, No 02 (2025)

MAFAZA

International Journal of Usuluddin Studies (MIJUS)

About
The Mafaza Journal is a biannual international Usuluddin Studies journal, peer-reviewed, published by the publisher of Sultan Sharif Ali Islamic University (UNISSA), Brunei Darussalam, and managed by the Faculty of Usuluddin (FOU). It publishes papers and scholarly studies related to the science of Usuluddin in Malay, English, and Arabic languages. The primary objective of publishing the Mafaza journal is to contribute to the understanding of fundamental aspects and principles in various scholarly fields within Usuluddin studies, such as issues related to Al-Aqīdah and Philosophy, Quranic Readings (Methods of Recitation of the Holy Qurʾān), Tafsīr and Ulum al-Qurʾān, Hadīth and Ulum al-Hadīth, Comparative Religion, Da’wah and Community, Sufism and Ethics. Schools of Islamic Theology and - Islamic Contemporary Thoughts Issues.

Issue Description

This issue brings together contemporary studies in the fields of Qur’anic studies, da‘wah, Islamic thought, and current issues, with particular emphasis on technology, maqāṣid al-sharī‘ah, and the preservation of Islamic values. The articles explore the teaching and preservation of qirāʾāt in the era of modern technology in Brunei, Malaysia, and West Sumatra; the application of artificial intelligence in the authentication of Qur’anic manuscripts and in Qur’anic and tafsīr studies; as well as Qur’anic therapy as an alternative approach to healthcare. Issues of da‘wah and intellectual discourse are further examined through analyses of Freemason strategies on social media, Islamic da‘wah in Japan, and the da‘wah dimension in the poetry of Imām al-Shāfiʿī. In addition, this issue presents studies on Islamic ecotheology, including a Prophetic ḥadīth–based perspective on reforestation and a semantic analysis of the concept of al-mīzān in the Qur’an in relation to the preservation of climatic balance. Overall, this edition highlights the continued relevance of Islamic teachings in addressing contemporary global challenges through scholarly approaches grounded in the principle of wasatiyyah (moderation).

Chief Editor

Kamaluddin Nurdin Marjuni

[https://unissa.edu.bn/journal/index.php/mafaza](https://unissa.edu.bn/journal/index.php/mafaza)

[https://kamaluddinnurdin.com/Library&UniversityCatalogLinks/](https://kamaluddinnurdin.com/Library&UniversityCatalogLinks/)
__________

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/gallery/54/1.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>
